---
title: Momentum + Action
tldr: It's true, you must "do", from any internal state
layout: post
pinned: false
---
Welcome to day 4 out of 47 of writing and publishing something every day.

I'm on a train to Boston while writing today. Train rides are guaranteed to put me in a reflective mood, so I'm making a brief departure from technical writing to follow the pensive energy swirling in my spirit. 

It's been quite a tumultuous last few months in my world, and I've been gifted with clarity and some updated perspectives and I'd like to spend a moment articulating just one of them. 


## Breadth vs. Depth



## On Chapters and Mythologizing 

My primary objective in life for as long as I can remember has been simple: to create a *rich life*. For whatever reason, I've struggled to be more precise than that. When I try, it feels as though I'm being asked to squeeze this ethereal, infinitely dimensioned, shapeshifting object in consciousness through a narrow tube. I've never felt connected with what came out the other end. 

Despite avoiding precision consciously, decisions will have to be made regardless, and it's hard to make decisions when the heuristic is "choose the path of most 'richness'" without knowing what it means. This is where the unconscious often steps in and decides for you. For example, maybe you unconsciously believe that breadth is on average "higher expected richness" than depth, so you make decisions that increase breadth over depth when given the opportunity.

This is a dangerous practice. If your

In essence, the things you actually *do* will be in alignment with the unconscious image, even if they are at odds with the conscious one. It often doesn't *feel* this way because it's easy to retrospectively create a narrative that sates the conscious hunger for explanation, but the process is mostly something like "be moved to action unconsciously, update the conscious framing", and not "be moved to action by conscious thought, unconsciously adjust". 

This works fine for a while, but eventually the stakes begin to get *real*. When you're young, unburdened by debts or responsibility. 

When that happens, you 

## 


