Writing prompt: 
To this end, instead of readings, all those in attendance are required to come with at least one printed or handwritten fragment/anecdote written by you. You can view this a shard of the Now, a paragraph or two long, that illustrates/describes the moment we are in drawn from the material of everyday life. As with the anecdotes many of you have shared in previous sessions, you might include interactions with friends, or events, objects, and/or phenomena closely observed within a given context. Ideally your anecdote or fragment will be somewhat crafted, but with no expectation that you openly interpret or pronounce upon it. An apt description or juxtaposition can be more powerful than telling readers what and how to think about your chosen subject. Consider it the beginning of trying to figure something out rather than the end. 


response:
At Sarah's funeral-themed 30th birthday party last night, a microphone appeared with an invitation to roast our guest of honor. Jenna went first and rambled through a series of uncomfortable and obviously-pulled punches, during which Christina drunkenly fell onto a table and knocked over the birthday cake, shattering a few plates. She had just told me that although she's in her mid-40s, she'll be "forever 27 at heart" and has no intention of updating her internal age. I went second in the roast, and stepped on stage with no plan whatsoever. 

Earlier that morning at the apartment you're subletting, I picked up the classical guitar first. The tuning pegs barely worked, which is inconsequential because the dilapidated GBE strings went out of tune immediately, and the dirt under the bridge muted all high-end frequencies. An EQ graph of my playing would have had the shape of the perfect sledding hill for an 8 year old. If you put ear plugs in and play with your chin on the body of the guitar, you can find the resonant frequency of your skull, I think. I noodled around in some jazz standards and offered a tasting menu of every genre I know.

