---
title: Three Quick Ideas
tldr: LLM trajectory crating, software evolution, resources
layout: post
pinned: false
---
Here are three ideas I'm trying to concretize:

## Trajectory Crafting

Idea: Use an embedding model to map a sliding window of generated tokens to analyze the trajectory of output.

Goal: If we could find a way to track where a path is leading, we can steer it, and we can better quantify the effect of steering.

Difficulties: 
1. We need a meaningful set of basis vectors to create poles in embedding space to know where we're going... Doing that feels complicated.
2. We need a vocabulary of tokens that have high steering power and the different ways generation reacts depending on injection context

Potential Solutions:
1. Embed "pole" trajectories and see if we're moving closer to them via cosine similarity
2. Continue searching for more meaningful vectors (are there ways to discover an 'antonym' vector?)

## Software Evolution

Idea: Clarify what using a computer will look for a single end-user like in 10 years assuming everything is AI-ified (excluding art/culture)

Goal: Pre-prepare for potential "end states" of software

Deeper Description: I don't really know what there would be left to do on a computer if we have fully "agentified" digital lives. Theoretically, you could just have a single page to ask natural language questions to and receive information back in whatever form you want. All services would be connected

Questions:
1. Why do we use computers in the first place?
2. What are the specific qualities of agent usage that we're interested in?
	1. Blanketing complexities with natural language
	2. Intelligence / Analysis
	3. Unique-ness
3. Why hasn't the "hyper-individualized" software boom fully taken off?
	1. Is this changed by Opus 4.5?

## Resource Allocation

Idea: Perhaps it's just the Twitter bubble I find myself in, but why is *not* true that the only economically valuable resources in the AI revolution will be those specifically involved in the creation, transportation, and deployment of AI?

Goal: High ground








