---
title: Welcome
tldr: Orientation Day. README first if you want to get your bearings.
layout: post
pinned: true
---

## Introduction

I'll try to keep this brief. You can get some basic facts about me from the homepage of my personal site. I'll add color here.

My interests are wide-ranging, and applying any order of specificity to them has always felt like an impossible task. To that end, I will speak obliquely about things like who I am, who I hope to be, what I do, what I hope to do, what I value, and allow the contours of myself to emerge from that.

### Who I am

I am a 27 year old male from Michigan. I grew up in a small-ish suburb lying on the northern border of Detroit. I went to pretty good public schools, relative to Michigan standards, and had  a mostly normal childhood. I was good at school (specifically math), good at sports, and loved music.

I went to Brown University for undergrad, motivated by the open cirriculum, academic rigor of an ivy league school, and the diversity (both literal and figurative) of the student body. Growing up in a pretty homogenous population, Brown looked like the right foil. It seemed to me as a 16 year old touring the campus that Brown was essentially a school of smart freaks where I could go to take both high-level math courses from distinguished professors as well as unconventional classes like "Music and Meditation" to round out the analytic.

This was mostly correct and a good choice, although I wish I had done a better job of finding my crowd while I was there and valuing the academics more. I got by with comparatively little effort which made it easy to avoid leaning in like I now wish I would've. Oh well.

At present, I live in Brooklyn. I spend my time working on my startup [Concordance](https://www.concordance.co/), where we develop technology for applied mechanistic interpretability.

#### Who I Hope to Be

I've always been drawing to writing, research, and experimentation, but haven't pursued them in earnest. I plan to develop this blog as a way to push me to be more precise, more rigorous, and more complete in my thinking about the world and of self.

I hope to be someone who writes with a regular practice, thinks with depth, and *plays* in life as a joyous experiment, micro and macroscopically. I'm in the process of turning my intuitions and thinking into more concrete output, because I've historically done a very bad job of being guided by external realities, as opposed to internal. Being insular and examining my inner life has served immeasurably, but is also often a cleverly disguised avoidance mechanism.

#### What I Do

I co-founded an AI startup called Concordance. We build technology to apply mechanistic interpretability research to real world problems. We're still quite early, we have some interesting tools that show promise, but building a company is hard. Aside from that, I exercise (mainly lift weights), write, walk long distances, play chess, create/listen to music, read (currently reading a collection of Jung essays as well as The Reign of Quantity & the Signs of the Times), and support my loved ones however possible. I'm also interested in learning how to sculpt, but I haven't instantiated that hobby yet.

I'm also working on creating a new "flywheel" for myself like I had while I was a musician on my self-imposed gap year. A flywheel, to me, is structure that consistently produces creative output, and occasionally, stochastically, creates *incredible* output ("creative" is intentionally vague -- I'm not so sure it's worth defining the medium just yet).

#### What I Hope to Do

All of the above, but better, more publicly, and with deeper attention.

#### What I Value

Above all else, I value truth. In my personal life, in my professional life, and in all of my creative pursuits, I'm always driven by the desire to uncover truth. This sounds simple, but in practice it is extremely difficult. Emotion and narrative often cloud the ability to see, and sometimes there are truths that are difficult to process. I'm still not great at this, but I've developed significantly.

It's important to note here that while I value truth above most else, I understand there is nuance. It is often unwise to be completely truthful about everything at all points. One must be tactful in which truth they say, when, and to whom, but I believe that people should extend their truth capacity more than they think, and that a rich life is built by those who risk seeing and speaking truth.

I also value beauty. Many things can be beautiful, and I broadly relate beauty to the concept of "evocative". A thing that is beautiful evokes a response. That response could be calm, it could be energy, it could even be disgust, but the context of each evoked response relative to the source is what creates the opportunity for beauty to be perceived. The same object could be beautiful or abhorrent depending on the context, so there is something within that contextual information that provides structure to beauty. More truthfully, however, beauty is generally best described by "if you know, you know."

Finally, I value connection. Connection is complicated and somewhat abstract. My working definition of connection is "to see elements of X in Y, and vice versa". If I am connected to a person, there are elements of them in me, and of me in them. Said another way, my self-perception involves them, and I expect theirs involves me. Similarly, if one sees a connection between two fields of research, they are likely noticing shared patterns between them. Connection is about shared components.

You'll notice here that I don't say explicitly that I value love. Love is far too overloaded a concept. Love is attention, and the quality/energy of that attention determines the shape of the love. Almost needless to say, I believe that attention is the only important resource we have as human beings. You might say "Attention is All you Need".

#### Conclusion

I hope you enjoy poking around. Send me a message on X if you want to start a conversation.
