---
title: Light, Object, Plane
tldr: an esoteric one for you
layout: post
pinned: false
---
The self is an object in a high dimension, and it's impossible to get the full picture of its true form.

Environment is a light source that shines onto the self projecting an image onto the plane. 

To glean information about the self, you can change the position of the light source, or you can rotate the object. 

Changing the light source is easy. Change the environment. See what new projections appear. On the surface you may see new patterns or edges. You might fine openings. No one said it would be continuous or what the topology would be. 

To rotate the object, you work backward and change the behaviors. It's best to change behaviors in the physical realm, but it's also possible to use mental behavior changes to shape rotate the self, but it's less effective.

It's possible for the projection to disappear. In a moment of awareness of non-duality, the projection itself ceases to meaningfully exist. 

The light source and the shape are of one fundamental texture. 

Time rotates the plane and changes *its* shape. It's not necessarily flat at all, who told you that? 

The plane might actually be topographically complex, like a mountain range. 

Think about the sun as the light source and you're floating somewhere above the earth. There are so many variables. What's your altitude and how big is the shadow? Are you over the ocean or a mountain range, or perhaps a rolling plain? 

Lucky, the light source is not the sun. Time moves the whole system on its own. Perhaps that's God. Perhaps God has outlined a trajectory for each component in our scene. The light source, the shape, and the projection surface all move and reveal new structure along a predefined trajectory to satisfy one single piece of a grand story. 

So where are *you* in this?


